## Image Processing

- An image is a visual representation of something.
- An image is defined as a two-dimensional function F(x,y), where x and y are spatial coordinates and the amplitude of F at any pair of coordinates (x,y) is called the intensity of that image at that point.
- When x, y, and F are finite, it is called a digital image.
- Image processing is a method to perform some operations on an image to get an enhanced image or to extract some useful information from it.

### Analog and Digital Information
- Analog Signals have continuous electrical signals, whereas Digital signals have non-continuous electrical signals (bits and bytes).

### Sampling and Digitizing Images
Sampling is a step used in converting an analog signal to a digital signal or digitizing the coordinate value. This process is called sampling.

- Sampling devices measure discrete color values at distinct points on a two-dimensional grid. These values are pixels.
- More pixels that are sampled result in a more realistic image.
- Sampling of 10 pixels per millimeter (250 pixels per inch and 62,500 pixels per square inch).
- 3-inch by 5-inch image: 3 * 5 * 62,500 pixels/inch² = 937,500 pixels.
- Approximately one megapixel.

### Image File Formats

#### JPEG
- Joint Photographic Expert Group.
- Known as lossy compression: Quality of the image decreases as the file size decreases.
- Animation is not supported.
- Some of the image information is lost on decompression.
- Supports 16 million colors and is mostly used in photographs.

#### GIF
- Graphic Interchange Format.
- Uses lossless compression algorithm.
- No image information is lost on decompression.
- Supports only 256 colors.
- Supports animations.
- Mostly used in computer-generated images and logos.

### Image-Manipulation Operations
- Transform the information in the pixels.
- Alter the arrangement of the pixels in the image.
- Rotate an image.
- Convert an image from color to greyscale.
- Apply color filtering to an image.
- Highlight a particular area in an image.
- Blur all or part of an image.
- Sharpen all or part of an image.
- Control the brightness of an image.
- Perform edge detection on an image.
- Enlarge or reduce an image’s size.
- Apply color inversion to an image.

### The Properties of Images
- The software maps the bits from the image file into a rectangular area of colored pixels for display.
- The coordinates of the pixels range from (0, 0) at the upper-left corner of an image to (width –1, height –1) at the lower-right corner.
- Different from the standard Cartesian coordinate system used with Turtle graphics, where the origin (0, 0) is at the center of the rectangular grid.
- An image consists of a width, a height, and a set of color values accessible by means of (x, y) coordinates.
- A color value consists of the tuple (r, g, b), where the variables refer to the integer values of its red, green, and blue components, respectively.

### The images Module
- The images module is a non-standard, open-source Python tool.
- The images module includes a class named `Image`.
- The `Image` class represents an image as a two-dimensional grid of RGB values.
- Python raises an exception if it cannot locate the file in the current directory or if the file is not a GIF file.

```python
>>> from images import Image
>>> image = Image("smokey.gif")
>>> image.draw()
```

| Image Method       | What It Does                                                                                        |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| i = Image(filename) | Loads and returns an image from a file with the given filename. Raises an error if the filename is not found or the file is not a GIF file.  |
| i = Image(width, height) | Creates and returns a blank image with the given dimensions. The color of each pixel is transparent, and the filename is the empty string. |
| i.getWidth()       | Returns the width of i in pixels.                                                                   |
| i.getHeight()      | Returns the height of i in pixels.                                                                  |
| i.getPixel(x, y)   | Returns a tuple of integers representing the RGB values of the pixel at position (x, y).            |
| i.setPixel(x, y, (r, g, b)) | Replaces the RGB value at the position (x, y) with the RGB value given by the tuple (r, g, b). |
| i.draw()           | Displays i in a window. The user must close the window to return control to the method’s caller.     |
| i.clone()          | Returns a copy of i.                                                                                |
| i.save()           | Saves i under its current filename. If i does not yet have a filename, save does nothing.           |
| i.save(filename)   | Saves i under filename. Automatically adds a .gif extension if filename does not contain one.       |
